# Draft and test the `extract_external` methods

## Draft `extract_external`

!!! success

    Add required dependencies to `pyproject.toml`

Add the [required dependencies](https://pypi.org/project/openmeteo-requests/) for the [Open-Mateo API](https://open-meteo.com/en/docs) to the `project.optional-dependencies.runner` section of `pyproject.toml`. Since `openmeteo-requests` and `retry-requests` are not available on [conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/), the `tool.pyproject2conda.dependencies` section of `pyrpoejct.toml` should also be modified to tell pyproject2conda to build the conda environment yaml files specifying that these packages be installed with `pip` instead of directly with conda.

??? example "`pyproject.toml`"

    ```python
    {%
      include "../../../../example-answers/able_weather_02/completed/pyproject.toml"
    %}
    ```

This example leverages the [example code generated by open-meteo](https://open-meteo.com/en/docs/historical-weather-api?latitude=42.3346515&longitude=-71.086777&hourly=temperature_2m,relative_humidity_2m,wind_speed_10m,cloud_cover,snowfall,snow_depth,rain,apparent_temperature,dew_point_2m,precipitation)

??? example "`extract_external.py`"

    ```python
    {%
      include "../../../../example-answers/able_weather_02/completed/able_weather/datasets/weather/open_meteo/runner/extract_external.py"
    %}
    ```

## Check lint and typecheck `extract_external`

```bash
tox run-parallel --quiet -f py312 lint -f py312 typecheck
```

## Test `extract_external`

!!! success

    Write a minimal unit test for `extract_external`. This unit test should consume a small but real test dataset from one of the following sources:

    - a small test dataset committed to the `datasets/tests/` directory of this git repo,
    - a remote data source (e.g., web API) using a relatively small query and the [`remote_data`](https://github.com/astropy/pytest-remotedata) [pytest marker](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/example/markers.html), or
    - if you have not yet paired down the data on disk into a test dataset small enough to commit to the git repo (<2MB), then use the `remote_data` marker but have the test consume data from disk but not committed to the git repo. Ideally, these tests should still be <100 MB of data and can run on a laptop.

!!! tip

    Typically, a "unit test" should not require access to remote resources or the full dataset on local disk. However, the purpose of this test is to ensure that the real data is as expected.

    If you try to use an AI agent to write this unit test, it might try to [monkeypatch](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/monkeypatch.html) the web API and yield synthetic data to the `extract_external` function. It will make assumptions about what the test data or remote data looks like, but not actually test against the real data.

This unit test requests a single day of data for a single location from `extract_external`. Since it uses the open-meteo web API, the `remote_data` pytest marker is applied. *(NOTE, the `pytest-remote-data` package is not typed, thus `mypy` complains about the untyped decorator `@pytest.mark.remote_data`. To make `mypy` happy, we tell it to ignore this type issue.)*

```python
@pytest.mark.remote_data  # type: ignore[misc]
def test_extract_external_remote_data() -> None:
```

??? example "`test_extract_external.py`"

    ```python
    {%
      include "../../../../example-answers/able_weather_02/completed/tests/able_weather/datasets/weather/open_meteo/runner/test_extract_external.py"
    %}
    ```

### Run the test

The most reliable way to run the test is through `tox` with the following command that runs all the unit-tests for the package modules that require the `runner` extras.

```bash
tox run -e py312-package-unit-runner
```

By default, tox will skip tests with the `remotedata` marker. If you use the `remotedata` marker you can tell tox you want the tests to run with the following command:

```bash
tox run -e py312-package-unit-runner -- --remote-data=any
```

### Debug the test

If you need to debug because the tests failed, or you just want to run this test file, you can use the VSCode python debugger. However, you *must* have the full `*-dev-runner` conda environment installed, which you can do with the following command and then use the [Python Environments](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.vscode-python-envs) extension to set the default environment.

```bash
snakemake conda_update`
```

Open the file you want to test, `test_extract_external.py` and open the VSCode command line (++ctrl+P++) and type the following, or click the caret symbol next to the play button in the top right corner of the file and select the "Debug using launch.json" option.

```text
Python Debugger: Python Debugger: Debug using launch.json
```

And then select "PyTest Debugger: Current Test" and select the option to run with remote data if needed.

You can then set breakpoints, watch variables, and use the DEBUG CONSOLE to help your tests to pass.

## Commit and CI

Commit the changes, push to github, and ensure all the continuous integration tests pass. **NOTE**: The CI tests will skip any tests marked with `remote-data`.
